---
title: 'WP4 Webinar #02: Young people''s practices with Generative AI: Emerging relationships
  of (dis)trust'
date: 2026-06-16 12:00:00+02:00
end_date: 2026-04-21 13:30:00+02:00
location: Zoom (link below)
layout: event
categories:
- Webinar
- WP4
tags:
- Generative AI
- Education
- (dis)trust
description: Fride H. Klykken explores how young people navigate trust and responsibility
  in their everyday engagement with Generative AI
image: /assets/images/portraits/Fride_Klykken.jpg
slug: wp4-webinar-klykken
---

Welcome to a webinar organized by [WP4](https://mishmash.no/wp4/) titled *Young people's practices with Generative AI: Emerging relationships of (dis)trust* with Fride Haram Klykken.

## Abstract
GenAI has become widely accessible and embedded in many young people's everyday (educational) practices, requiring them to navigate uncertainties of how to engage responsibly with rapidly evolving technologies. Understanding young people's experiences is key, and this presentation draws on existing research to discuss how they engage with and make sense of GenAI in education. The talk will also incorporate empirical examples from an ongoing study on how upper secondary students articulate emerging (and sometimes contradictory) relationships of (dis)trust involving, for instance, tools, teachers, tech companies, and selves. Following a relational and situational approach to trust and technology (Pink & Quilty, 2025), allows discussions of how relationships of trust can be understood as continually attuned and adjusted in everyday practices, and the presentation invites reflections on educational responsibilities in supporting students as active and critical stakeholders in uncertain, AI-entangled futures.
 
## Bio
[Fride H. Klykken](https://www4.uib.no/en/find-employees/fride-haram.klykken) is a Postdoctoral Researcher at the Centre for the Science of Learning and Technology (SLATE), University of Bergen. Her research interest lies at the intersection of education, technology, and relational ethics, with a particular focus on how digital and AI technologies shape educational practice. Klykken's postdoctoral research is part of the EduTrust AI project, Artificial Intelligence in Education: Layers of Trust, funded by Trond Mohn Research Foundation. In AI LEARN, she co-leads tasks on citizens’ agencies in the AI society (children to seniors) and innovative capacity-building initiatives, including game‑based and participatory approaches.

## Access
Join via [Zoom](https://uiano.zoom.us/j/9173998233?pwd=ibt2l25SD7BfBwRCMfGjr5Qjdmj8cc.1&omn=64458722266&from=addon) (Password: 123456).
Please get in touch with [Adrian Førde Andersson](https://www.uia.no/om-uia/ansatte/adrianfa/) if you have questions or troulbles joining. 
