---
title: "MeshUp #14 – AI-Assisted Instrument Creation"
date: 2026-05-21 12:00:00 +02:00
end_date: 2026-05-21 12:30:00 +02:00
location: Zoom
layout: event
categories: [MeshUp, WP1]
tags: [Computational Design]
description: "Øyvind Brandtsegg presents on the topic of using AI tools in the development process of new instruments for musical expression."
image: /assets/images/portraits/Oyvind_Brandtsegg_NTNU.jpg
slug: "meshup-14"
---

Join us for Meshup 14, our weekly gathering for MishMashers.
This week, [Øyvind Brandtsegg](https://www.ntnu.no/ansatte/oyvind.brandtsegg) will present on the topic *Instrument creation on the border of accelerated creativity -- Physical interfaces, automated responses and digital extensions*.

## Abstract
An artistic workflow within music technology might often require the development of new instruments for musical expression. The newness of the instruments might be related to the physical interfaces the performer uses to interact with the instrument or feature extraction and analysis of gestures made on the interface. It may also include digital signal processing techniques for audio synthesis and effect processing, and potentially also control signal generation for interfacing with other media. A substantial part of the development process usually involves the making of custom software solutions, either by writing software from scratch, or adapting off-the-shelf APIs and other available technologies. With the current advance of AI assisted coding, this process has been opened up to new practitioners who does not necessarily have an engineering background. In this talk, Brandtsegg will show examples of such instrument development in his own work and reflect on how AI tools enhance and support this practice. How does it accelerate workflow, how much, and in which parts of the process? What is the quality of generated code? What is developer competence in this context, and what do we need to teach students in order to enable such practices?


## Bio
[Øyvind Brandtsegg](https://www.ntnu.no/ansatte/oyvind.brandtsegg)  is a composer and performer working in the fields of algorithmic improvisation and sound installations. His main instrument as a musician is Hadron Particle Synthesizer, ImproSculpt and Marimba Lumina. ImproSculpt is an instrument for live sampling and realtime composition, built by Brandtsegg. Hadron is a very flexible realtime granular synthesizer. In addition to his own work as a composer and musician, he has also done programming for other artists and for commercial audio applications.



## Access

MishMash MeetUps are short, informal meetings in the consortium where both early career and established researchers present ongoing projects. The events are open for everyone, but, for security reasons, Zoom links are only provided to people that are affiliated with a MishMash Work Package. If not, please [ask for access](mailto:contact@mishmash.no).
