---
title: "Meshup #18 – Siri-Helen Egeland"
date: 2026-06-18 12:00:00 +02:00
end_date: 2026-06-18 12:30:00 +02:00
location: Zoom
layout: event
categories: [MeshUp, WP5]
tags: [Meshup, WP5, Copyright, Street Art, Generative AI]
description: "Siri-Helen Egeland discusses copyright, street art, and AI, including legal challenges around web scraping and text-to-image systems."
image: /assets/images/portraits/square/Siri-Helen_Egeland_UiA.jpg
slug: "meshup-18"
---

[Siri-Helen Egeland](https://www.uia.no/om-uia/ansatte/sirihelene/) will present on the topic of *Copyright, street art and AI*.

## Abstract

Street artists are on the forefront of both the use and the consequences of text-to image generators. The artform is easily accessible in the street, and due to this, vast amounts of images where murals, pieces and tags are depicted, are also easily accessible online, exposing the art to web scraping for use as AI training data. In this presentation Siri Egeland will discuss the relationship between street art and artificial intelligence in a copyright perspective. To highlight some of the challenges and opportunities artists face within this relationship, Egeland will also present an upcoming bookchapter where she alongside Professor Enrico Bonadio at City St.George's University of London, has interviewed 10 street artists on their views on AI.

## Bio

[Siri-Helen Egeland](https://www.uia.no/om-uia/ansatte/sirihelene/) is an assistant professor at the Department of Law at the School of Business and Law, University of Agder. She holds a master's degree in law from the University of Bergen. Egeland`s work background is mainly as a lawyer in the private sector, where her practice has had a focus on contract law and litigation. She teaches IP-law at the University of Agder and is working on a PhD with the preliminary title: “Issues on copyright and moral rights in the intersection between visual arts and frontier technology”. The PhD-project is partly funded by Kunstsilo and The Sørlandet Knowledge Foundation (SKF). Egeland is collaborating with street art festival Kunsten å leve (The art of living) in Kristiansand, Norway, and hosts the academic program under this annual festival.

## Access

MishMash MeetUps are short, informal meetings in the consortium where both early career and established researchers present ongoing projects. The events are open for everyone, but, for security reasons, Zoom links are only provided to people that are affiliated with a MishMash Work Package. If not, please [ask for access](mailto:contact@mishmash.no).
