---
title: "Meshup #8 – Anders Tveit"
date: 2026-03-19 12:00:00
end_date: 2026-03-19 12:30:00
location: Zoom
layout: event
categories: [MeshUp, WP1]
tags: [meshup, wp1, live-electronics, machine-learning]
description: "Anders Tveit presents a short lecture exploring the use of machine learning and AI-based technologies in composition and live electronic performance."
image: /assets/images/portraits/square/Anders_Tveit_NMH.jpg
slug: "meshup-08"
---

[Anders Tveit](https://nmh.no/kontakt-oss/ansatte/anders-tveit) will present a short lecture with the title *Klangen av Fremtiden?*.

## Abstract

A short presentation featuring personal reflections and musical examples from my work with violinist Victoria Johnson on *Klangen av Fremtiden?*, an artistic research and development project exploring the use of machine learning and AI-based technologies in composition and live electronic performance. The project examines how machine learning—centered on timbre—can operate as interactive instruments within live electronics.

## Bio

[Anders Tveit](https://nmh.no/kontakt-oss/ansatte/anders-tveit) works mainly with electroacoustic composition, improvisation and sound installations. Where the use of self-developed software for real-time processing and spatial sound plays a central role in the musical expression. Tveit is also an Associate Professor at The Norwegian Academy of Music at Composition, Music Theory and Music Technology Department.

“In my work, I am constantly interested in working with new approaches to the use of new technology, both in the composition process and in the performance. Something that for me, creates a holistic thinking around the work and the artistic result. This often means that I like to work in such a way that the differences between developer, performer and composer are blurred, which I find interesting, challenging and exciting. ”

## Access

MishMash MeetUps are short, informal meetings in the consortium where both early career and established researchers present ongoing projects. The events are open for everyone, but, for security reasons, Zoom links are only provided to people that are affiliated with a MishMash Work Package. If not, please [ask for access](mailto:contact@mishmash.no).
