---
title: "Meshup #10 – Felicity Baker"
date: 2026-04-16 12:00:00 +02:00
end_date: 2026-04-16 12:30:00 +02:00
location: Zoom
layout: event
categories: [MeshUp, WP3]
tags: [Meshup, Music Therapy, Dementia Care]
description: "Felicity Baker will talk about how AI delivers personalized interventions for dementia care through adaptive music therapy and wearable sensor integration."
image: /assets/images/portraits/square/Felicity_Baker.jpg
slug: "meshup-10"
---

This week, [Felicity Baker](https://findanexpert.unimelb.edu.au/profile/89810-felicity-baker) will present a short talk titled *MATCH: Where AI meets music therapy*.

## Abstract

Artificial intelligence offers new opportunities to deliver personalised, scalable interventions for managing behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD), including agitation and distress. MATCH (Music Attuned Technology for Care via eHealth) and MATCHplus have been developed to harness this potential by translating music therapy principles into an adaptive digital system. MATCH is an iteratively developed mobile app that use music intentionally during care, supported by a personalised music recommender therapeutic engine that guides music selection based on individual needs and responses using our bespoke music recommender algorithms. MATCHplus extends this capability through wearable sensor integration and a prediction system that detects early signs of agitation, enabling timely, pre-emptive interventions.

## Bio

Professor [Felicity Baker](https://findanexpert.unimelb.edu.au/profile/89810-felicity-baker) is Associate Dean Research at the University of Melbourne, Professor II at Norwegian Academy of Music and founder of MATCHplus, a MedTech spin-out commercialising MATCHplus (not yet launched!). She leads interdisciplinary, AI-driven music health research, securing over AUD$19M in funding across her career. An internationally recognised music therapy researcher, she has led major trials and global collaborations focused on translating evidence-based music interventions into scalable, real-world care solutions.

## Access

MishMash MeetUps are short, informal meetings in the consortium where both early career and established researchers present ongoing projects. The events are open for everyone, but, for security reasons, Zoom links are only provided to people that are affiliated with a MishMash Work Package. If not, please [ask for access](mailto:contact@mishmash.no).
