---
title: "Meshup #9 – Steven Bachelder"
date: 2026-03-26 12:00:00
end_date: 2026-03-26 12:30:00
location: Zoom
layout: event
categories: [MeshUp, WP2]
description: "Steven Bachelder presents on AI-generated imagery, deepfakes, and new forms of visual literacy in information ecologies, with insights from the UPEXRE research group's ongoing projects on perception, disinformation, and participatory learning."
image: /assets/images/portraits/square/Steven_Bachelder_INN.jpg
slug: "meshup-09"
---

This week, [Steven Bachelder](https://www.inn.no/english/find-an-employee/steven-bachelder.html) will present a short talk titled: *New tools of production -result in new information ecologies -requiring new forms of visual and information literacy*.

## Abstract

As Artificial intelligence develops, the relative ease of producing AI-generated images and deepfakes affords production and distribution at massive and immediate scale. Present information ecologies are becoming increasingly besieged with disinformation. Democratic countries are particularly vulnerable as citizens are directly dependent of correct information to guide their voting process. New visual and information ecologies require new forms of discernment and new and contextually relevant forms of visual literacy. This presentation offers a quick glance at some of the ongoing research projects in the UPEXRE research group. These projects investigate the capacity of AI image making in information contexts and the use of games to foster discernment and disinformation skillsets through experience-based learning and participatory enactments.

## Bio

[Steven Bachelder](https://www.inn.no/english/find-an-employee/steven-bachelder.html) holds a professorship in game design at the University of Inland Norway (INN). He leads the UPEXRE research group (User perception and engagement in XR experiences). The group has several projects investigating the malleability of perception through information structures, imagery and context. Using game technologies as research methods, enactments, and forms of artistic intervention, the group explores new ways to engage in dialogue involving complex challenges. The research group has several colleagues from INN as well as international partners, research fellows, master students and interns.  


## Access

MishMash MeetUps are short, informal meetings in the consortium where both early career and established researchers present ongoing projects. The events are open for everyone, but, for security reasons, Zoom links are only provided to people that are affiliated with a MishMash Work Package. If not, please [ask for access](mailto:contact@mishmash.no).